# Aggregation agreement

## Table of contents

- [Aggregation agreement](#aggregation-agreement)
  - [Table of contents](#table-of-contents)
  - [Introduction](#introduction)
  - [Transmitting aggregation agreements](#transmitting-aggregation-agreements)
  - [API messages](#api-messages)
    - [Messages](#messages)
    - [Message rules](#message-rules)

## Introduction

Aggregation is the process of managing the consumption of the designated grid metering point(s) in order to reduce consumption (or increase production) during periods of increased energy demand and to increase consumption (reduce production) during periods of decreased energy demand. To this end, the aggregator controls the consumption and/or production of equipment behind the grid metering point and measures aggregated energy amounts with special aggregation metering points that fall under the relevant grid metering point.

In order to provide aggregation services, an aggregation agreement is entered into between the market participant and the aggregator, which determines the terms and conditions of aggregation. It is worth noting that the Datahub does not collect exact aggregation terms and conditions.

## Transmitting aggregation agreements

The aggregator is obliged to transmit the aggregation agreement to the Datahub.

The intended process for using agreement services is described in [Agreements](05-agreements.md). The following describes the additional actions of the Datahub related to aggregation agreements:

- The Datahub makes the information of new or changed aggregation agreements available to the open supplier of the master metering point (using the `data-distribution/search` service), so that the supplier can consider when preparing forecasts whether the production or consumption of active energy of the given metering point can be affected by aggregation.

## API messages

### Messages

> **Note**
> The rights for transmitting and requesting data are described in [Authentication and authorisation](02-authentication-and-authorisation.md)

For a description of the messages, see the general document [Agreements](05-agreements.md).

### Message rules

The general rules for agreements are described in [Agreements](05-agreements.md#message-rules).

Additional rules of the aggregation agreement are:

- An aggregation agreement can only be entered into at an aggregation metering point.
- The duration of the aggregation agreement cannot exceed the duration of the grid agreement of the master grid metering point at either end point.
- The start date of the agreement must be at least one day in the future if there is no prior active aggregation agreement related to the master grid metering point.
- The start date of the agreement must be at least 14 days in the future if there is a prior active aggregation agreement related to the master grid metering point.
- The start date of the agreement may be up to 48h in the past if the open supplier registers the open agreement afterwards and the start date of the agreement coincides with the start date of the grid agreement of the master grid metering point.
- The end date of the agreement must be at least one day in the future and at least one day further than the start date.
- Market participants can add the agreement only in the role of an aggregator (AGG).
- The `serviceProvider` of the agreement must be the registrant of the agreement and the `customer` of the agreement may be any market participant.
- Adding a agreement to oneself is not allowed (`serviceProvider` and `customer` must not be the same).
