# Grid agreement and grid use agreement

## Table of contents

- [Grid agreement and grid use agreement](#grid-agreement-and-grid-use-agreement)
  - [Table of contents](#table-of-contents)
  - [Introduction](#introduction)
  - [Transmitting grid agreements](#transmitting-grid-agreements)
  - [API messages](#api-messages)
    - [Messages](#messages)
    - [Message rules](#message-rules)

## Introduction

A grid agreement or grid use agreement determines the conditions for the use of the grid at a metering point and is a prerequisite for the supply and aggregation of energy.

A grid agreement is entered into between the grid operator of the connection point and a market participant. A grid agreement is also entered into between the grid operator and its master grid operator. For example, between Elering and a distribution grid company. Such a grid agreement of a border metering point has, in conjunction with a portfolio agreement, an impact on automatically generated open supply agreements, as described in [Portfolio agreement](06.1-portfolio-agreement.md).

Grid agreements are divided into standard and border metering point grid agreements.

> **Warning**
> 
> In the initial scope, automatic open supply agreements are generated only when a portfolio agreement is created. The functions of checking the portfolio agreement and automatically creating open supply agreements upon the creation of a grid agreement of a border metering point are added later.

A grid use agreement is entered into between the line operator or closed distribution network operator and a market participant.

## Transmitting grid agreements

The intended process for using agreement services is described in [Agreements](06-agreements.md). The following describes the additional actions of the Datahub related to grid agreements:

- When decreasing the end date of a agreement, the Datahub will assign the same end date to all related open supply and aggregation agreements.
- When extending the end date of a agreement, the Datahub will extend the end date of those related open supply and aggregation agreements that were previously automatically shortened due to the decreased grid agreement date. The date can be extended until the end date of the grid agreement or the original end date of the open supply agreement (or aggregation agreement).
- When deleting a agreement (before it becomes effective), the Datahub will also delete the open supply and aggregation agreements that will become valid in the future.
- The extension, shortening and deletion of a border metering point agreement also immediately results in the modification or deletion of the validity periods of automatically generated open supply agreements. See also [Portfolio agreement](06.1-portfolio-agreement.md).
- The Datahub makes updated grid agreement available for the open supplier and aggregator via the `data-distribution/search` service.

## API messages

### Messages

> **Note**
> The rights for transmitting and requesting data are described in [Authentication and authorisation](03-authentication-and-authorisation.md)

For a description of the messages, see the general document [Agreements](06-agreements.md).

### Message rules

The general rules for agreements are described in [Agreements](06-agreements.md#message-rules).

Additional rules of the grid agreement are:

- At a single point in time, a metering point can only have one valid grid agreement.
- The end date of the agreement may only be changed retroactively if it does not affect the open supply or aggregation agreement.
- The agreement must not stipulate an early termination fee.
- Each grid operator must have a grid agreement with the master grid operator for at least one border metering point.
- The agreement can only be added by a market participant in the role of a grid operator (GO), producer (PO), line operator (LO), charging point operator (CO) or closed distribution network operator (ISO) who is the owner of the metering point specified in the agreement, i.e. the metering point adder.
- The `serviceProvider` of the agreement must be the registrant of the agreement and the `customer` of the agreement may be any market participant.
- A grid agreement for a border metering point is only allowed to be created for a border metering point.
- The `customer` for a border metering point's grid agreement must be the a grid operator (GO) or closed distribution network operator (ISO)
