# Agreement amendments requiring coordination

## Table of contents

- [Agreement amendments requiring coordination](#agreement-amendments-requiring-coordination)
  - [Table of contents](#table-of-contents)
  - [Introduction](#introduction)
  - [Retroactive adding of agreements (changes to start or end date)](#retroactive-adding-of-agreements-changes-to-start-or-end-date)
    - [Open supply agreements](#open-supply-agreements)
  - [API messages](#api-messages)
    - [Messages](#messages)
    - [Message rules](#message-rules)

## Introduction

In accordance with business rules, the prior agreement of the relevant market participants is required before entering into or amending certain agreements.

Separate services have been set up for these activities to support the coordination process.

> [!WARNING] 
> All functionality described in this document is excluded from the original scope.

## Retroactive adding of agreements (changes to start or end date)

### Open supply agreements

Retroactive changes to open supply agreements require coordination between the existing open supplier, the grid operator and the grid operator’s balance responsible party. Coordinations will be collected from everyone at the same time and in parallel. Below are message descriptions, examples and rules.

1. An open supplier enters a request to change the start or end date of an open supply agreement.
2. The request will be sent for coordination to the following market participants:
   - the open supplier of the metering point – only if the customer has an open supply agreement at the metering point;
   - the balance responsible party of the open supplier of the metering point – only if the customer has an open supply agreement at the metering point (and the open supplier is not itself the balance responsible party);
   - the grid operator of the metering point or to a supplier named by the grid operator;
   - the balance responsible party of the grid operator or a supplier named by the grid operator (in the case of a supplier only if the supplier is not the balance responsible party itself).
3. The Datahub confirms the amendment provided that the aforesaid coordinations and other terms and conditions of change of supplier are fulfilled.

## API messages

### Messages

| Sõnum                                        | Eesmärk                                                            |
|----------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `POST /api/{version}/agreement-coordination`       | Create agreement coordination |
| `POST /api/{version}/agreement-coordination/search` | Search agreement coordination          |
| `POST /api/{version}/agreement-coordination/instruction`       | Reply to agreement coordination request                                                  |

For a description of message structures and validations, see [Datahub description and general principles for data exchange](01-datahub-description-and-general-principles-for-data-exchange.md)

### Message rules

> [!WARNING] 
> The described functionality will be added later, currently it is not possible to use these messages.

> [!NOTE]
> The rights for transmitting and requesting data are described in [Authentication and authorisation](03-authentication-and-authorisation.md)

##### `agreement-coordination` rules

- A request can only be created for supply agreements (`agreementType = SUPPLY`).
- The request sender must be in the role of an open supplier.
- The request sender must be in the role of a service provider in the agreement mentioned in the request.
- The agreement periods for a single metering point must not overlap.
- The request must include the desired dates for the agreement:
  - `proposedValidFrom` indicates the new desired start date of the agreement;
  - `proposedValidTo` indicates the new desired end date of the agreement.
- The grid agreement must cover the entire period of the desired supply agreement.
- `agreementAction` indicates whether it is the creation or updating of an agreement. Possible options are: `CREATE`and `UPDATE`.
- When adding a request, it is mandatory to add a justification.

##### `agreement-coordination/search` rules

- Requests can be queried for a maximum period of 30 days.
- Only past requests can be queried - `creationDateTo` must not be in the future.

##### `agreement-coordination/instruction` rules

- Possible responses (`instruction`):
  - `APPROVED` - Coordination can be given if the status is `READY_FOR_APPROVAL` and all previous parties have approved the request. A cancelled request cannot be coordinated.
  - `DENIED` - Coordination can be given if the status is `READY_FOR_APPROVAL` and all previous parties have approved the request. When declining a coordination request, it is mandatory to add a justification. A cancelled request cannot be coordinated. The first refusal to coordinate will end the coordination process and subsequent coordination responses cannot be sent.
  - `CANCELLED` -  The coordination process can only be cancelled by the initial request sender. Cancellation is possible if the status is `WAITING_FOR_APPROVAL`. This means that cancellation is only possible if no one has yet approved or denied the request.